Theme customization (#2568)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Umbraco-Uno/Creating-Content/Customize-Your-Theme/index.md

---
versionFrom: 8.0.0
---

> # Customize Your theme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Customize your theme
```

> Your theme lets you add your touch to your page, meaning the colors you want, the font, and all that. firstly if you are new to working with Umbraco Uno and do not yet know how to work with the [Theme](../../Getting-Started/Themes/index.md) then it is recommended that you take a look.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A custom theme lets you add a little personal touch to your page - the colors you want, the font, and all that. If you are new to working with Umbraco Uno and do not yet know how to work with the theme then it is recommended that you [take a look.](../../Getting-Started/Themes/index.md)
```

> A custom theme lets you add a little personal touch to your page - the colors you want, the font, and all that. If you are new to working with Umbraco Uno and do not yet know how to work with the theme then it is recommended that you [take a look.](../../Getting-Started/Themes/index.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A custom theme lets you add a little personal touch to your page - the colors you want, the font, and all that. If you are new to working with Umbraco Uno and do not yet know how to work with the theme then it is recommended that you [checkout the Theme Editor.](../../Getting-Started/Themes/index.md)
```

## How to customize your theme through the theme editor

> We will be working with the theme editor, you can access this by going to the preview section of the unicorn hotel page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will be working with the theme editor, , which you can access by going to the preview section of the _Unicorn Hotel_ page.
```

> We will be working with the theme editor, , which you can access by going to the preview section of the _Unicorn Hotel_ page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will be working with the theme editor, which you can access by **previewing** any page on your website.
```

### Picking the colors and text of the theme

> First what we will need to do is click the green button that looks like a paintbrush, then the theme editor will show up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First what we will need to do, is click the green button that looks like a paintbrush - then the theme editor will show up.
```

The theme we will be setting up will be a watermelon theme, and it will look like this:

![watermelon theme](images/theme.gif)

:::note

> If you want a colored theme you will have to go to the Hero Widget and set the overlay to 0 otherwise the color you choose for background color will be put on top of your hero image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use colorful background colors it is recommended that you do not configure the *Overlay Strength* feature on your widgets, as the colors will be used for the overlay.
```

::::

> 1. Select ***Theme*** and press in the field and type in the value you see on this image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Type in the values you see on this image below or choose your own color scheme.
```

    ![watermelon theme color](images/Color-settings.png)

> 2. Do this for all the fields and press ***Save***
> 3. This will result in the color Scheme for the dark theme to be set up like intended.
> 4. Select ***Text*** in the menu bar at the top of the theme editor.
> 5. Choose Roboto as both Heading and Body Font

Reviewer: Removed item number 2, as I've suggested to write the first bullet.
Removed item number 3, as it wasn't really a step, but more a statement.

```suggestion
2. Select ***Text*** in the menu bar at the top of the theme editor.
3. Choose Roboto as both Heading and Body Font
```

### Setting up Header and Footer

> Firstly navigate to the header tab in the theme editor, then follow the process below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firstly navigate to the Header tab in the theme editor, then follow the process below:
```

1. Set Theme Dark
2. Set Nav Position Left
3. Set Container to Full Width
4. Height should be 60
5. Height Mobile should be 50
6. Logo Padding should be left at 20
7. Logo Padding Mobile should be set to 16
8. Nav Padding set to 30
9. Nav Padding Small Screen 15

> Then navigate to the footer tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then navigate to the Footer tab:
```

1. Choose Dark Theme
2. Select Container Big

## Logo

> To set up the logo we will have to go back to the backoffice and got into settings and find Theme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set up the logo we will have to go back to the backoffice, go into settings and find Theme.
```
